docs/live-trace-visualization.md, before:

# Live Trace Visualization

View generated traces in a browser using Jaeger while the simulator runs on your host.

## Prerequisites

- Docker or Podman (Makefile prefers Podman if available)
- Simulator running locally (e.g. `make run` or `make run-scenario`)

## Steps

1. **Start Jaeger** (OTLP receiver + UI):

   ```bash
   make jaeger-up
   ```

   This starts Jaeger with OTLP on ports 4317 (gRPC) and 4318 (HTTP), and the UI on port 16686.

2. **Run the simulator**:

   ```bash
   make run
   # or a specific scenario:
   SCENARIO=successful_agent_turn make run-scenario
   ```

3. **Open the Jaeger UI**: [http://localhost:16686](http://localhost:16686)

   - Select service **telemetry-simulator**
   - Click **Find Traces** to see generated traces

4. **Stop Jaeger when done**:

   ```bash
   make jaeger-down
   ```

## Environment

- **OTLP endpoint**: The simulator uses `http://localhost:4318` by default (set `OTLP_ENDPOINT` or `--endpoint` to change).
- **Schema and tenant**: Ensure `TELEMETRY_SIMULATOR_SCHEMA_PATH` (or `SCHEMA_PATH`) and `TENANT_UUID` are set as described in the [README](../README.md).

## See Also

- [README](../README.md) – Quick start and CLI reference
- [Generating Telemetry](./generating-telemetry.md) – Scenario usage

Commit message:

feat: simulation framework and scenario definitions
- Scenario config, loader, control plane, dependency rules
- New scenario definitions (request blocked/error, rate limited, etc.)
- Trace schema docs, file exporter and validator updates
- Realism modifiers, id generator, conventions

docs/live-trace-visualization.md, after:

# Live Trace Visualization

View generated traces in a browser using Jaeger while the simulator runs on your host.

## Prerequisites

- Docker or Podman (Makefile prefers Podman if available)
- Simulator running locally (e.g. `otelsim run --semconv /path/to/conventions.yaml`)

## Steps

1. **Start Jaeger** (OTLP receiver + UI):

   ```bash
   make jaeger-up
   ```

   This starts Jaeger with OTLP on ports 4317 (gRPC) and 4318 (HTTP), and the UI on port 16686.

2. **Run the simulator**:

   ```bash
   otelsim run --semconv /path/to/semconv.yaml
   ```

3. **Open the Jaeger UI**: [http://localhost:16686](http://localhost:16686)

   - Select service **otelsim**
   - Click **Find Traces** to see generated traces

4. **Stop Jaeger when done**:

   ```bash
   make jaeger-down
   ```

## Environment

- **OTLP endpoint**: The simulator uses `http://localhost:4318` by default (use `--endpoint` to change; the Makefile uses `OTLP_ENDPOINT` when set).
- **Schema and tenant**: Set `SEMCONV` as in the [README](../README.md). Tenant ID comes from `config/config.yaml`.

## See Also

- [README](../README.md) – Quick start and CLI reference
- [Generating Telemetry](./generating-telemetry.md) – Scenario usage
